# i-score plug-in API tutorial

This tutorial presents the usage of the i-score API, in order 
to understand how to build an addon for the software.

### First steps : compiling and running.

Currently, i-score addons are built as part of the build process. In the 
future it would be better to allow them to be built from outside.

First, put the addon in the `i-score/base/addons` folder.
For instance, for this tutorial, the folder should look like : 

    i-score/base/addons/iscore-addon-tutorial/CMakeLists.txt
    
Then, run CMake and compile : if all goes well, there should be a new panel, 
new processes, etc. that are all provided by the new code;

### Tutorial addon

This addon showcases the use of the most common interfaces in i-score.

There is documentation, but please also refer to the base classes documentation
(for instance, `iscore::GUIApplicationPlugin` for `Tutorial::ApplicationPlugin`).

For the core concepts of the i-score API, please generate the 
Doxygen documentation found in `i-score/Documentation/Doxygen`.

### Organization of an addon

The build system is CMake. All the build information goes in `CMakeLists.txt`.

There is a specific CMake command to call : `setup_iscore_plugin` ; it 
will ensure that the plug-in builds with the same compile options than the 
rest of i-score (static vs dynamic, precompiled headers, link-time optimization, etc.).

An i-score plug-in is based on the Qt plug-in system. 
The gist of it is : 

* The "Qt" plug-in is generally a class named like `iscore_addon_tutorial`, 
at the root of the addon. It is the entry point for loading it.
* This class only provides factories that are registered in the software, 
and can directly instantiate an application-wide instance of a class in `make_applicationPlugin`.

All the other classes are provided either through : 

* `factoryFamilies` : to provide your own abstract factories.
* `factories` : to provide your own concrete factories.
* `make_commands` : to provide your own undo-redo commands.

Then, it is up to the plug-in design to organize his addon how he sees fit.
The addon `iscore-addon-remotecontrol` has a prototype implementation of 
a downloadable addon, with a JSON specification file.
