# Base interfaces

### Contexts

The i-score software has multiple context levels : 

* Application-wide : the object can be accessed from the whole application, 
it's more or less a singleton. For instance, the user settings, the skin, the panels...
* Document-wide : the object is specific to a given document. For instance, 
the undo-redo command stack.
* Some objects have a specific context.

These contexts are accessed through `iscore::ApplicationContext`, 
iscore::DocumentContext`, or more specific classes.
All the classes registered via plug-ins are accessible through the
`ApplicationContext`.

For instance, to access the `Tutorial::ApplicationPlugin`, one can at any point 
in code do : 

    auto& tuto = iscore::AppContext().applicationPlugin<Tutorial::ApplicationPlugin>();
    
To access the `Tutorial::DocumentPlugin`, it is necessary to have a `DocumentContext` 
(since each document might or might not have it). Such contexts can be obtained 
throught any kind of object pertaining to a document hierarchy, via 
`iscore::IDocument::documentContext(anObject)`. See "Object model".

However, it is much better practice to instead pass the various contexts as 
dependencies of classes that require them, for instance in their constructor.

### Identifiers

Most classes are identified with UUID, i.e. strings that looks like 
"878358ee-a8b8-45f1-9d42-66d3116191cd". This allows fast lookup.

UUIDs can be generated with the `uuidgen` command on Linux, macOS
and `uuidgen.exe` on the Windows SDK.

### Panels

The panels are the graphical objects on the left, right, and bottom 
of the main document view. 

One can provide new panels through the `iscore::PanelDelegate` class.

### Object model

i-score is based on a hierarchic object model. One must take care not 
to mix the type hierarchies (when B inherits from A) and the object hierarchies 
(when A has child objects of type B).

It relies on Qt's object model (QObject), but adds an id to each object, 
to allow them to be found and referred to by a path. The id is unique at
a given hierarchical level, for a given object name. 

Then, we get roughly four kinds of objects on top of this :

* Concrete classes inheriting from `IdentifiedObject` : these classes are the most simple 
kind of objects. For instance, a note (`Midi::Note`) or a point in a curve (`Curve::PointModel`).
* Concrete classes inheriting from `Entity` : these classes are more complex model objects, 
with common features added : 
   * The ability to host components. See `iscore::Component`.
   * Run-time metadata (name, label, comment, color...). See `iscore::ModelMetadata`.
* Abstract classes inheriting from IdentifiedObject : simple classes that have polymorphic 
behaviour. For instance, `Curve::SegmentModel` : the various segment kinds are implemented 
through inheritance.
* Abstract classes inheriting from `Entity` : complex objects that may have components, 
and sub-classes. For instance, `Process::ProcessModel`.

The abstract classes are more complex : 

* There must be a factory to instantiate them.
* They must inherit from `iscore::SerializableInterface` in order to provide 
the virtual `save` method.

These classes can be put in `EntityMap` : a special container that sends notification 
whenever an item is inserted or removed.

In the Tutorial addon, examples of such objects are : 

* `Tutorial::SimpleElement` for the first case.
* `Tutorial::SimpleEntity` for the second case.
* `Tutorial::PolymorphicEntity` for the second case.

The `Tutorial::ProcessModel` has examples of usage of `EntityMap`.
