# Modifiying the model

### Example : bananas

This simple example modifies a value stored in a process.
To test it : 

* Add a TutorialProcess.
* Go to its inspector.
* Press "Add a Banana".

The number should increase in the process view.

The relevant code is in (from UI to model and back again) : 

* `Tutorial::InspectorWidget::InspectorWidget` : sets up the UI
* `Tutorial::InspectorWidget::addBanana` : sends a command
* `Tutorial::AddBanana::redo` : the command
* `Tutorial::ProcessModel::setBananas` : modification of the model
* `Tutorial::ProcessModel::bananasChanged` : notification of the change in the model

The `bananasChanged` signal is connected to : 

* `Tutorial::InspectorWidget::InspectorWidget` : changes a label.
* `Tutorial::ProcessPresenter::ProcessPresenter` : updates the process view.
* `Tutorial::LocalTreeProcessComponent::LocalTreeProcessComponent` : changes the value in the device explorer.

### Example : entities

This example is more involved. When double-clicking on the process view, 
a PolymorphicEntity will be created.

Messages will be logged to stderr, and to the message panel (Ctrl-Shift-M).

To test, show the message panel, do some double clicks in the process view, and some undo-redo (ctrl-z, ctrl-shift-z).

The process is as follows : 

* `Tutorial::TutorialView::mouseDoubleClickEvent` : catches the click
* `Tutorial::TutorialView::doubleClicked` : a signal, sent by the view, catched by the presenter.
* `Tutorial::TutorialPresenter::on_doubleClicked` : finds a relevant factory, creates a command.
* `Tutorial::AddEntity::redo` : the command.

* `Tutorial::ProcessModel::polymorphicEntities` : the command adds the new entity here.

* `Tutorial::InspectorWidget::on_entityAdded` : logs a message when an entity is added / removed.

Also take a look at the classes in the `PolymorphicEntityFactory.hpp` file.


